{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10001\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset77 Times-BoldItalic;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset77 Times-Bold;
\f3\froman\fcharset77 Times-Roman;\f4\fnil\fcharset78 HiraMinPro-W3;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10500\viewh8140\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qr

\f0\i\b\fs28 \cf0 ToyViewer (Ver.4.30)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qr

\f1\i0\b0\fs26 \cf0 Takeshi OGIHARA (ogihara@cs25.scitec.kobe-u.ac.jp)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
ToyViewer is an image viewer, which was developed originally on NeXTstep and then on OPENSTEP.  Currently it is for Mac OS X (Cocoa).  ToyViewer has simple editing functions and image converting filter services to other applications.  If ToyViewer is installed in your Mac, you can see image files in PCX, PPM, Sun Raster, etc. on other Cocoa applications.\
\pard\tx1440\tx2880\tx4320\tx5760\tx7200\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b\fs36 \cf0 Overview
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li720\fi-300\ql\qnatural

\fs26 \cf0 1.	ToyViewer can read and display image files in following formats:\
\pard\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li720\ql\qnatural

\fs18 \cf0 \
\pard\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li1440\ri1100\ql\qnatural

\fs26 \cf0 tiff, gif, bmp, png, jpg, bie(jbig), pcx, pcd, pict, pnm (ppm, pbm, or pgm), xbm, mag, SUN Rasterfile, 
\fs24 JPEG2000(jp2, jpc, j2k)
\fs26 , and other formats supported by Mac OS X.\
\pard\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li720\ql\qnatural

\fs18 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li720\fi-300\ql\qnatural

\fs26 \cf0 2.	Displayed images can be saved in following formats:\
\pard\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li720\ql\qnatural

\fs18 \cf0 \
\pard\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li1440\ri1100\ql\qnatural

\fs26 \cf0 tiff, pdf, gif, bmp, png, jpg, jpeg2000, bie(jbig), pnm, or xbm.\
\pard\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li720\ql\qnatural

\fs18 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li720\fi-300\ql\qnatural

\fs26 \cf0 3.	ToyViewer can attach a custom icon to any file as well as newly saved image file.\
4.	ToyViewer can read and write gif or png files with transparent color, and also can read and write interlaced(progressive) gif, png, or jpg files.\
5.	ToyViewer can scan (auto-display) image files in a folder. You can also display images in full-screen size.\
6.	Displayed images can be scaled (enlarge/shrink).\
7.	You can rotate, flip, or clip images.\
8.	ToyViewer has ability to adjust brightness, contrast, color tone of images, and has some typical operations to images, such as enhancement, embossing, and so on.\
9.	You can replace specified color with other color or transparent color.\
\pard\tx720\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li720\fi-420\ql\qnatural
\cf0 10.	Full color images can be reduced into 256, 64, or 8 colors. Also, each color value of images can be cut down to 4, 2, or 1 bit.\
11.	ToyViewer can make images monochrome (8bit gray, 2bit gray, or bilevel).\
12.	Images can be printed.\
13.	You can set ToyViewer to display any image format if there is a filter program to ppm format.\
14.	ToyViewer provides image conversion filter services for other applications.\
15.	You can add comments to images (comments are written into only gif, png, jpg, or pnm formats).\
16.	You can make Aqua-button-like images.\
\pard\tx720\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li720\fi-420\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b\fs36 \cf0 What's New (Ver.4.20 --> Ver.4.30)
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1280\tx1840\tx2400\tx2960\tx3520\tx4080\tx4640\tx5200\tx5760\tx6320\tx6880\tx7440\li720\fi-260\ql\qnatural

\fs26 \cf0 \'a5 	ToyViewer can display and save JPEG2000 files
\f4  (jasper is used internally)
\f3 .  Not only jp2 format, which is available on QuickTime or Preview, but also j2k format (jpc format), which is used on the net is available.\
\'a5 	Remark Button is added to each window. If the button is checked, the window is not closed automatically when "Close All Windows" operation is selected.  This button is also useful during scanning a directory.
\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b\fs36 \cf0 Caution
\f3\b0\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\ri-840\ql\qnatural

\fs26 \cf0 Binary distribution of ToyViewer 4.30 can run on Mac OS X 10.2 or later.  If you want to use it on 10.1.x, download the source package and compile it.\
\
ToyViewer Ver.4.30 has several failures (when used on Mac OS X 10.2) as below:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\ri-840\ql\qnatural

\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\li720\ri-840\ql\qnatural

\fs26 \cf0 \'a5 	Can't display EPS files (Mac OS X does not support yet)\
\'a5 	Can't save in GIF format (Mac OS X does not support yet) without filer program.\
\'a5 	Can't display some TIFF images (Mac OS X does not support TIFF images compressed by JPEG any more)\
\'a5 	Some applications can't use Image Convert Service successfully\
}