{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f5\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\ftech Symbol;\f0\fswiss Helvetica;\f3\fmodern Courier;\f2\fmodern Ohlfs;}
\paperw13920
\paperh15000
\margl120
\margr0
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\f5\b0\i0\ulnone\ql\fs24\fi0\li0\gray0\fc0\cf0\up0\dn0 Copyright 
\f1 ã
\f5 1992-2004 by vhf interservice GmbH.  All Rights Reserved.\
\

{\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\f0\b\fs56\li1500\fc0\cf0{\NeXTHelpMarker70 \markername NS_DEV_DOCFOR:objc_class:ButtonCell;}
,}\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs56\li1500\fc0\cf0 HPGLExport\

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\f5\b0\fs80\li1500\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx4220\f0\b\fs24\fi-2720\li4220\fc1\cf1 Inherits From:
\fs28\fc0\cf0 	
\f5\b0 Object\

\fs20 \

\f0\b\fs24\fc1\cf1 Declared In:
\fs28\fc0\cf0 	
\f5\b0 HPGLExport.h\

\fs20 \

\f0\b\fs52 \

\pard\fs36\fi-1020\li1200\fc0\cf0 Class Description\

\fs14\fi0\li1360 \

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\f5\b0\fs28\li1500\fc0\cf0 The HPGLExport class provides the programmatic interface to export the HPGL vector graphics language. The HPGL export is usually implemented via a sub class (ex HPGLExportSub), which is implementing the methods needed to export the graphics data of a specific application.\

HPGLExport's 
\b write
\b0  methods are used to write graphic elements to a data stream. The finished data stream is finally written to disk by using 
\b saveToFile:
\b0 . You create a new HPGLExport instance by sending the class an 
\b alloc
\b0  or 
\b new
\b0  method. You initialize an instance received from the alloc class method, by sending it an 
\b init
\b0  method.\

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\f3\fs24\li1500\fc1\cf1 \{   HPGLExport *hpglExport = [[HPGLExport alloc] init];\
    NSPoint    p0, p1;\
    NSPoint    center, startPt, endPt;\
    float      angle, radius;\
    NSString   *fileName;\
\
    [hpglExport writeArc:center :startPt :endPt :angle];\
    [hpglExport writeCircle:center :radius];\
    [hpglExport writeLine:p0 :p1];\
\
    [hpglExport saveToFile:fileName];\
    [hpglExport release];\
\}\

\f5\fs14 \

\fs28 The parameters in the example (p0, p1, center, startPt, endPt, angle, radius, fileName) need to be set as needed.\

\fs14 \

\fs28 For an actual example of implementation see the Cenon source codes (http://www.cenon.info). Take a look at the Classes HPGLExport, HPGLExportSub and Document.
\f3\fs24 \

\f5\fs14\fc0\cf0 \

\f0\b\fs56 \

\pard\fs36\fi-1020\li1200\fc0\cf0 Method Types\

\fs14 \

\pard\tx6080\tx11280\f5\b0\fs28\fi-4840\li6320\fc0\cf0 Creating an HPGLExport	
\fc1\cf1 + alloc
\fc0\cf0 \
	
\f1\fc1\cf1 -
\f5  init
\fc0\cf0 \

\fs10\fc1\cf1 \

\fs28\fc0\cf0 Export	
\f1 -
\f5  
\fc1\cf1 writeArc
\fc0\cf0 ::::\

\pard\tx11280\f1\fi-240\li6320\fc0\cf0 -
\f5  writeCircle::\

\f1 -
\f5  writeLine::\

\fs10 \

\pard\tx6080\tx11280\fs28\fi-4840\li6320\fc0\cf0 Writing to a file	
\f1 -
\f5  saveToFile:\

\pard\tx6080\tx11280\f0\b\fs70\fi-4840\li6320\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\fs36\fi-1020\li1200\fc0\cf0 Instance Methods\

\fs14\fi0\li1360 \

\pard\tx1500\tx8260\f5\fs28\fi-520\li1500\fc0\cf0 init:
\f0 \

\pard\fs6\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\f5\b0\fs28\fi-620\li2520 - (self)
\b init
\b0 \

\fs14 \

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\fs28\li1500\fc0\cf0 Initializes a newly created HPGLExport object. The object provides an empty data stream, ready to be filled by using the write methods.\

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\fs14\li1500\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx2780\tx3280\tx3760\f0\b\fs24\fi-1300\li2800\fc1\cf1 See also:  
\f1\b0\fs28 -
\f0\b\fs24  writeCircle::, 
\f1\b0\fs28 -
\f0\b\fs24  writeCircle::, 
\f1\b0\fs28 -
\f0\b\fs24  writeLine::\

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\f5\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\f0\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc1\cf1 \

\pard\tx1500\tx8260\f5\fs28\fi-520\li1500\fc0\cf0 writeArc::::
\f0 \

\pard\fs6\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\f5\b0\fs28\fi-620\li2520 - (void)
\b writeArc:
\b0 (NSPoint)
\i center
\i0  
\b :
\b0 (NSPoint)
\i startPt 
\b\i0 :
\b0 (NSPoint)
\i end 
\b\i0 :
\b0 (float)
\i angle
\i0 \

\fs14 \

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\fs28\li1500\fc0\cf0 Appends an arc to the HPGL data stream. The arc is defined with its 
\i center
\i0 , the start point 
\i startPt
\i0 , end point 
\i endPt
\i0 , and its 
\i angle
\i0 . All angles are measured in mathematic positive sense (ccw).\

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\fs14\li1500\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx2780\tx3280\tx3760\f0\b\fs24\fi-1300\li2800\fc1\cf1 See also:  
\f1\b0\fs28 -
\f0\b\fs24  writeCircle::, 
\f1\b0\fs28 -
\f0\b\fs24  writeLine::\

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\f5\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\f0\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc1\cf1 \

{\pard\tx1500\tx8260\fs28\fi-520\li1500\fc0\cf0{\NeXTHelpMarker2123 \markername NS_DEV_DOCFOR:objc_method:[ButtonCell-altIcon];}
,}{\pard\tx1500\tx8260\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\fi-520\li1500\fc0\cf0{\NeXTHelpMarker2124 \markername NS_DEV_DOCFOR:objc_method:[ButtonCell-altImage];}
,}{\pard\tx1500\tx8260\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\fi-520\li1500\fc0\cf0{\NeXTHelpMarker2125 \markername NS_DEV_DOCFOR:objc_method:[ButtonCell-setIconPosition:];}
,}\pard\tx1500\tx8260\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\fi-520\li1500\fc0\cf0 writeCircle::\

\pard\fs6\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\f1\b0\fs28\fi-620\li2520 -
\f5  
\b writeCircle:
\b0 (NSPoint)
\i center
\i0  
\b :
\b0 (float)
\i radius\

\i0\fs14 \

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\fs28\li1500\fc0\cf0 Appends a circle to the HPGL data stream. The circle is defined with its 
\i center 
\i0 and
\i  radius.
\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\i0\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\fs14\li1500\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx2780\tx3280\tx3760\f0\b\fs24\fi-1300\li2800\fc1\cf1 See also:  
\f1\b0\fs28 -
\f0\b\fs24  writeArc::::, 
\f1\b0\fs28 -
\f0\b\fs24  writeLine::\

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\f5\b0\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\f0\b\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx1500\tx8260\f5\fs28\fi-520\li1500\fc0\cf0 writeLine::
\f0 \

\pard\fs6\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\f5\b0\fs28\fi-620\li2520 - (void)
\b writeLine:
\b0 (NSPoint)
\i startPt
\i0  
\b :
\b0 (NSPoint)
\i endPt
\i0 \

\fs14 \

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\fs28\li1500\fc0\cf0 Appends a line to the HPGL data stream. The line is defined by a start point 
\i startPt
\i0  and an end point 
\i endPt
\i0 .\

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\fs14\li1500\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx2780\tx3280\tx3760\f0\b\fs24\fi-1300\li2800\fc1\cf1 See also:  
\f1\b0\fs28 -
\f0\b\fs24  writeArc::::, 
\f1\b0\fs28 -
\f0\b\fs24  writeCircle::\

\pard\tx2480\tx2860\tx3240\f5\fs14\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\f0\fs52\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx1500\tx8260\f5\fs28\fi-520\li1500\fc0\cf0 saveToFile:
\f0 \

\pard\fs6\fi-380\li2480\fc0\cf0 \

\f5\b0\fs28\fi-760\li3240 - (void)
\b saveToFile:
\b0 (NSString*)
\i filename
\i0 \

\fs14 \

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\fs28\li1500\fc0\cf0 Writes the data stream to a HPGL file to the directory and name given in 
\i fileName
\i0 .\

\pard\tx3600\tx3980\tx4340\fs14\li1500\fc0\cf0 \

}
